1 -)What is Spring Boot and how does it differ from the Spring Framework?
ans:- Spring Boot is extension of spring Framework and it simplifies the development of java applications by providing pre-build tools and auto-configurations,
      embedded servers.unlike spring Spring boot minimize the boilerplate code and configurations.
2 -)What are the advantages of Spring boot ?
ans:- easy to set-up with auto-Configuration
      servers like Tomcat or Jetty
      Pre-configured libraries and frameworks
      easy Deployment with JAR or WAR
3 -)How does Spring Boot simplify application development?
ans:- through auto-configuration spring boot automatically configured beans and settings depend upon project dependency,
      this eliminates most of the XML code and boilerplate code
4) -)What are the significance of @SpringBootApplication annotations?
ans:-@SpringBootApplication is combinations of three annotations @EnableautoConfiguration,@Configuration,@ComponentScan .
     it enables component scanning and configurations and mark class  as configured class
5) -)What is the difference between spring boot and spring MVC?
ans:-Spring MVC is the web framework under the spring ecosystem that focus on the building web applications.
     spring boot simplifies  entire process of the development offering auto-configuration and embedded servers.
6) -)What are the key components of spring boot applications ?
ans:- @SpringBootAppliation
      Embedded servers
      Dependencey management(via Maven/Gradle)
      Auto-Configurations
      Spring boot starter
7) -)How does spring boot auto-configuration works?
ans:-spring boot auto configurations automatically enables configurations depends on which you have jar dependency added.
8) -)What is spring boot starter?
ans:-starter are set of pre-defined configured dependency that simplify the process of adding commonly used libraries to the project.
     Examples include spring-boot-starter-web, spring-boot-starter-data-jpa, etc.
9) -)What is use of application.properties & application.yml?
ans:-this files are used for the configured the settings.you can define server port ,logging,database connections details

